Hi guys, welcome back to Creating a Wedge and the Solution
to it! So let's hop straight into Blender now and show you what
you need to do!
Let's go ahead and make that wedge! So I'm going to
start by just deleting what we have here. There are a couple of ways to do it.
Now I could select everything down here, Select, Select All,
and that also is Deselect, so it toggles Selection and Deselect.
That's with the A key if you want. Alternatively, if you
are in Object Mode you could have the model already selected,
and then, of course, hit the X key
to Delete and this little prompt comes up,
and then we can click on Delete. So I want
to add a Cube as a starting point, because that's the closest
thing to our wedge. I'm just going to
shift that up just a little so it's above this plane.
Now how do I make a wedge? Well essentially I'm going to be slicing that in two,
so along this diagonal. So I need to hop into Edit
Mode, I'm going to select this edge here
because I know we need to get rid of that,
and hit X and Delete Edges.
These two as well.
There we go! And we could have done that by
selecting the vertices or the faces or whatever. You
could have done it in any number of ways, that's fine! So
here we want to create a face. Now a face is essentially going to be at least
three points, so we could just select all
three vertices and press F. If we wanted to,
we could have Edge Select turned on and select these two edges and press
F. And finally, we've got this area
here. So we'll want to select the four edges
or four vertices, but these are currently selected
so we'll want to deselect those OK. Now if we press
F it fills that in! That's a nice wedge
but I do want it a bit more natural, so I want to stretch it out.
I want to stretch it out along here. So if we go
and select this front edge only and
pull that this way, we get ourselves a much more natural shaped
wedge. I'm quite happy with that! How did you
guys get on!?!